# The-Economic-Impact-of-Clinical-Depression
The purpose of this thesis is to investigate depression’s effects on GDP per capita glo- bally, as well as in four different income groups and genders. Data from the Global Burden of Diseases and World Bank have been used to collect and conduct a panel data set that includes 185 counties, between the years 1992-2019. Depression is mea- sured as a disability-adjusted life year (DALY) variable. The data include three DALY variables one for all genders and one for each gender, female and male. First, a panel data analysis was conducted, considering OLS, Fixed, and Random Effects. Second, a system and difference GMM estimation method has been devised to address problems, such as endogeneity, reverse effects, etc. As far as OLS estimates are concerned, fixed and random Effects have on average been more able to capture a negative correlation between depression and GDP per capita. The estimated effect size for the panel data method has been fluctuating and too uncertain to conclude anything other than that the- re is a negative correlation between depression and GDP per capita. Further funding has shown that system GMM performs overall better than difference GMM. For the glo- bal effect without the breakdown of income countries, estimating depression on GDP per capita is between -5% and -34%, depending on what depression variable and lag is used. Divided into four income groups, the effect size ranges between -1% and -6%, depending on which of DALY’s variables and lag is used. Due to weak instruments and the number of countries in the high and upper middle income groups, it has not been possible to comply with the assumption for GMM estimation. Therefore, it has not been possible to estimate a plausible and realistic effect for these income groups. For im- provement, one should choose an external instrument and compare it. A deeper study of depression is imperatively needed in the future, along with the separation of data be- tween those who are receiving therapy treatment and those who are not. Consequently, one will be able to estimate depression’s true effect much more comprehensively.
